Welcome back to the advanced course on
Tableau and today we will be putting all
our findings into a beautiful story line
to present to the executive stakeholders
of the company.
Alright so here we've got our findings
in front of us this is the main chart
that we've been working with. How do we
put it into a storyline? To start off,
with let's create that storyline that
will be placing everything into there we
go so that will be our storyline now
let's set a specific height and width
for the storyline. I'm going to set a
thousand width and a 700 height,
ok that's good! You can choose from
dropdowns here based on where you'll be
presenting or how your audience will be
viewing a storyline. I personally
selected this one because it is like the
desktop but it is a bit smaller in terms
of hieight because we don't we won't be
needing all of that hard for the
specific storyline.
Ok so what do we want to put in here?
Well we already have our analysis and
I'm just going to make this a bit
smaller so it's easier, a very
important step is that we're going to be
using this chart quite a lot and we
won't just have it by itself we will use
different subsets of this chart. We'll
look at the separate machines by
themselves that's our plan for the
storyline. We want to start our storyline
with an overall summary and then we want
to talk about every single machine that
we analyzed and give advice or insight
into each one of these charts. So that
means we'll be using this chart quite a
lot and therefore we have to make sure
is formatted really well at the very
start so we won't have to reformat it.
Let's go ahead and do that. So let's
start from the top left this label
machine is not required let's hide label.
Now this is required for now for the
overall summary but it won't be required
for each individual machine so we'll
take care of that later. Next this axis
here, we need to format it and change it
to a percentage so let's change it to
a percentage like that now we don't need
the name of the axis because we know
what we're talking about there's only
one metric we're analyzing let's get rid
of the name. See that saves a bit of space
and we can move this over here you save
a bit more space. Now we don't need the
name of this axis because once again
it's obvious what it is. It's the date,
alright so there we go we've cleaned up
this chart a little bit. That's a good
start.
Next we want to do is also fix up this
axis and demonstrate marks, tick marks
for every day. So let's click every one
day
click OK and now you can see that we
have a line for every single day. Next
what you can see here is once you bring
up your mouse to any value there's a
tooltip so we want to fix up that
tooltip. We don't want to see this then
we don't want to see we do want to see
this
the date and the time but we just want
we might want to change the name and we
want to change in for this also
we don't want to see this control at all.
So let's go ahead and fix that up we're
going to go too far,
worksheet tooltip and in the tooltip
we're going to get rid of the top part
and we'll leave the bottom part will
create backspace and click tab one time
and then we will say idle capacity and
then will click backspace and click tab
on time
perhaps we'll say idle capacity 8 hour
moving average. Ok click ok, so now when
we bring it up you can see that the
tooltip is much better
the other thing is that if we click on
one by accident you can see another
trend line up here. If you select a
couple of them then a trendline will
appear just for those dots we don't want
that in this specific visualization so
let's go ahead and right click somewhere
on the chart and then go to trend lines
edit trend lines and uncheck this last
box show recalculated line.
Alright so what now when we click on
some charts on some dots we won't see
the line and once again we still want to
get rid of this control panel in our
tooltip.
So let's go ahead and do that worksheet
tooltip and here you've got a options
include command buttons
let's get rid of that because the user
doesn't need these command bottoms see
now they're not coming up anymore.
Ok that's a good start, alright so what
do we want? We want to put this in the storyline.
So let's change this and call this
report. Now let me show you an example of
how we can include this analysis
worksheet in our storyline. We can simply
just drag it in but then we don't have
control we don't have that much control
over it.
For instance I can't get rid of this
color legend its there and I can't
adjust things about this chart as easy
as I could in a dashboard and that's the
drawback of dragging just worksheets
into the storyline. You have much less
control. So we're going to cancel that so
just delete that basically and the
better way of putting sheets into your
storyline is to go through a dashboard
every single time and that way you will
have much more control of what is going
on. So let's create a dashboard and so
this one will call it analysis and we'll
just put a D at end saying dashboard so
there's analysis, there's analysis dashboard and
now we're going to take analysis and
we'll drag it in here. Now as you can see,
it's a bit big that's because my
dashboard is too big. I want to make it
smaller so here I'll say 900. What was our
height, our width here was a thousand so
here we're saying 900 which is which is
a reasonable so we'll have some matches
on the right on the left and here are
height was 700 here we're going to say
550 because we do have this bit at the
top which take some takes up some space.
So there we go, that's our dashboard and
now we can close that. We don't want that
color legend and also we don't want this
title over here, so let's get rid of the
title.
Ok so now we have this dashboard and
let's go ahead and drag it into our
storyline, so there you go that's
the start of your storyline you can make
some space as you can see there's
disappears because it's not fitting in.
Let's make
some space, there you go so that that
makes space and it fits perfectly into
my window right now.
Ok so this is going to be our first view
in the storyline or call it summary and
that's pretty much it so for the title
of the story
you definitely do want to tell the story
so let's double click that and change it.
I've got one prepared here Coal Terminal
Maintenance Analysis (Mock-Up) and I want
that centered. There we go so that's
going to be out title for the story.
Alright we've got the first slide in
here and it looks good. It's going to pop
up. It's got the labels over here and you
might want to change these but I'm just
going to yeah I'm actually going to
change them I'm going to go back to my
analysis over here and if you're right
click and click Edit alias you can
change it so I just wanted to be rl1
and I just want all of them to be rl1, rl2
so there we go I've just changed the
aliases for all of these. So they look
better in the storyline and I can make
some space here and as you can see that
makes it look better in the storyline.
Alright so one thing we did forget to do
is you see these large margins in the
chart that's a bit too much
so let's go ahead and go back to the
chart over here and we'll go to the axis,
edit axis and we'll say the fixed stars
should be the 30th of we should be the
31st and it gives it two days margin we
just want one day as my numbers so one
day margin is enough now it looks a bit
better bit wider so there we go that's a
good start to our dashboard. We've got
the first page ready let's create a new
page to a new blank point now into here we
also what we want to do is one start
talking about machines but before we do
we want to first talk about or have like
an introductory slide and we'll call
this one are reclaimers and we'll just
have a picture here at a top it'll still
be in some texture saying reclaimers
make a bold statement. So we want to
create another dashboard with just one
picture but
we can create new dashboard or we can
just copy this one, copy sheet because
it's already got the right width and
height for us actually we want to
duplicate sheet there we go
and this one we're going to call
reclaimers dashboard.
Alright so here what we want is we want
to get rid of the previous image of the
previous visualization and now we just
want to add some text and for the texts
were going to say reclaimers and make it
perhaps size 22 make it bold and keep it
great for now right click, click edit
actually click format and I want shading
this color. Now what I want is I want an
image underneath,
I've prepared some images you can get
them in the course materials folder or
actually on the course materials website
and I'm going to use this image for
reclaimer and now I'm going to
essentially image but I don't want to
fit the image now let's make some room
over here maybe that about that size
and right click, edit text, select all
make it white, center the text, click
okay. So that looks better and so that's
our reclaimers dashboard. We're going to
go to report and drag it into here.
Alright so once you're reading through a
story you see the summary and then
you're like okay so now we're going to
talk about the reclaimers. Great, so now
we want a new blank point and here we want
to start talking about the first
reclaimer so in order to start talking
about the first reclaimer we want to
have this sheet but at the top so at the
top here we want to have the name of
what we're talking about then we want to
have a chart so that the chart for that
reclaimer then some text and maybe
something else so let's get started on
that. I'm going to duplicate this because
I wanted to keep the width of the height
of this specific text bar. I'm going to
go ahead and duplicate sheet and this
one I'm going to call  RL 1 and D
because it's the dashboard for rl1.
Of course I'm going to get rid of this,
well actually I'm just going to keep it
there for now so that size doesn't
change and now in here I want to the
analysis tab but of course I want to
first duplicate this tab so that then I
can just leave it leave the machine that
I need so I'm going to duplicate sheet
and here I'm going to call it RL1 so
maybe analysis rl1 and I'm going to take
machine and put into filter and I'm
going to select non on leave rl1. As
you can see there is our chart and the
table calculations haven't been affected
by applying at all just got rid of
everything that we don't need. Alright
that's a good start, so what do I want I
want this in my dashboard so in this
dashboard instead of this picture so
analysis rl1 there we go we can get rid
of that ok that's a good start now I
want some text under it right,
I've actually already prepared the text
it does take a while to type it up but
nevertheless there's our texts so and
what else do I want? I want this text to
be aligned towards the top
ok so that's our texts now it does look
a bit empty with just a text I don't
need this filter so I'm going to rid of
it just looks still a bit empty so if I
just included in the report now you'll
see what I mean you can see like
something's missing right, something
is missing. So let's put something in
here let's put an image, I'm going to put
it to the left and I'm going to use a
map so the map of our stock yard and I'm
going to tell the user where exactly is
located, is this machine located I'm
going to point to it actually I don't need
this. As you can see it's taking up space
we already know we're talking about rl1
so let's
get rid of the header and then let's hide
title and let's change the reclaimers to
RL1. Now what
or actually let's call it reclaimer one.
Okay so there we go now what I want to
do is I want to show the user exactly
which one we're talking about and by the
way here we want to want to fit image so
it fits nicely. So we can see all them
all right so I want to show the user
which one we're actually talking about
exactly here and we're talking about RL1
so how am I going to do that? I can add another
image with a circle but i'll show you a
quick handy trick here if you add text
right so if you first click floating and
you add text will be floating text and
if you click O and then in your font
you select Century Gothic so where is
it?
Century Gothic it makes all very round
like a circle and then for size we're
going to say something like maybe like
size 60 and of course we want to make it
red
so let me highlight it and make it red
maybe that red not not that red so
where's the red there that red.
Ok so now I can highlight rl1 and on the
dashboard it looks like we actually
highlighted it and now I can include
this in my report,
so I'm going, alright sorry there, there
we go so once you go
to the storyline you can see the
overall summary and maybe you can talk
about everything here and there will be
enough but if the viewers for instance
are viewing it on Tableau  server and they
want to read through your analysis then
they'll it'll be like a powerpoint
basically for them they all go ok
summary reclaimers ok and here we're
going to say rl1 and then they already
get it, get into the analysis of rl1 the
image above illustrates 8-hour moving
average of vital capacity and so on so
you basically specify what
exactly you saw in this chart and what
the conclusion for this specific machine
is. So there we go, we've done one out of
the five machines four more to go
and in order to save time I'm going to
end this tutorial here and I will leave
it up to you. I encourage you to create
the elements of the storyline for the
remaining four machines. Just remember
that in order to if you want to keep the
formatting consistent just duplicate the
tabs whenever you're creating a new tab
duplicate the sheets duplicate the
workbooks and then just drag everything
into a storyline. It should be pretty
straightforward.
The probably, the only complex thing
is to describe the findings and text but
I'm sure you'll be fine of that and in
the next tutorial I will show you the
final result and we can compare
everything in the next tutorial and I
look forward to seeing you then
until next time, Happy Analyzing!